what's up everybody welcome back to the
fan scription podcast
I'm Walter Binet dziak and I'm Rob Rob
that's true
Walker Rob Walker yes well Rob this is
the first fan scription video that you
got to write my condolences to anyone
watching condolences to you as well no I
I really enjoyed this man I liked your
take on Iceman
this is Return of the Jedi if you
haven't been able to tell by the title
of this video or the transcript from
video so by the way before we even get
into this if you're watching this on
YouTube there's a link down below to an
audio version of this so make sure you
click that you just want to hear me and
rap talk and not see your ugly faces or
if you do like our ugly faces you can
keep watching this just be gentle with
whatever you're doing with our faces in
Photoshop please yes seriously I don't
know what bodies you're pacing our faces
on make it good
make it good anyway return the Jedi this
is startup great I know so you know with
rocky 4 I really want to do that for a
long time and sort of adjust things in
that movie and this is your version of
that you really wanted to do this this
has been like yeah this was my passion
project right probably why it's so damn
long it's almost a full half hour you
know I thought for years about this
movie cause like I've gotten into
numerous like arguments like pro and con
for the film right as I know a lot
there's a lot of people out there who
don't really like Jedi that much so I
guess the least best I I know some
people like my wife is like that's
actually my favorite movie so I've
gotten on both sides of the ax but yeah
just for years I'm just like well what
would I do to fix it yeah more your
original thoughts and I mean you first
saw it I'm guessing home video when you
got a home video because it came out
eighty-three I would only been four so
yeah I saw it on home video
I liked the dark aspects of it I I
thought like because I had watched
Empire as a kid and that one you know
was like whoa right and then so the
whole Vader Luke Emperor thing Luke
trying to find another way
I resonated with that really well I
liked Endor as a location because as a
kid I thought it was really cool
see like trees the Star Wars we really
yeah you had yet Yavin but that was kind
of it so I thought was really kind of
like the I don't know I've always been
more of like I was more of a fantasy kid
so yeah that really resonated with me
the Ewoks cartoon was also on okay I
like that but the rest of it even as a
kid like it didn't really stick with me
like I would always wait for the Luke
Vader stuff yeah like that's what I was
waiting for and as an adult I mean I
enjoyed it a lot as a kid and I still
enjoy the movie a lot now it's probably
my I think it is probably my like well
it's a difference between what I think
may be objectively the best and what
just entertains me the most yeah again I
think the Luke Vader stuff like is just
such a great payoff that it carries the
rest of the film even though the film
with so many problems but ya know uh so
I I enjoy the movie a lot but I was just
like it came with such a weird sacrifice
for the rest of the characters I
remember it was like a year ago when we
were starting to come up with this idea
I was watching Empire and I'm like God
Han and Leia are so interesting in this
movie are and have such a dynamic and
then like I put on Jedi right afterwards
I'm like what happened what the hell
happened here everyone's a lot goopy ER
I think you said in one of the previous
versions of your voiceover that you're
talking about George Lucas wanted to
bring it back to make it he did more
kid-friendly time that's the the story
goes is that Lucas was kind of horrified
a little bit with Empire Strikes Back
and thought it was too dark
first hit yeah well he was the one he
had the least involvement right he was
going through and he was going he was
going through a divorce so really he had
the least involvement with it and in
Jedi he came back with a force and
really grabbed force haha really grabbed
the reins back to the point that the big
rumor is
and I tend to believe Zed he practically
ghost directed a number of scenes and
you could tell like Lawrence Kasdan was
trying to take the directions there's a
there's a great story about how Kazon
had this idea that there was like a
Judas he walk basically that was gonna
sell them out to the Empire you you be
buggin is he website and like apparently
Lucas said bag this like note like no
evil he walks never anything about so he
he had concerns too about like he just I
don't know how to describe it you could
just tell that between those two movies
like he thought Empire went to dark and
that was that was the rumor that he
thought it basically was too dark
basically versus kid-friendly audience
and he wanted to bring it back to
something like that and the result is
something that feels like a fairy tale
ending for a series that had decided it
was not going to be a fairy tale but
really more of a myth sure and
mythological stuff tends to be darker
and this one it literally is like never
happen like I made this comparison when
I was listening to your vo and
everything you know talking about like I
know you don't not a big fan of Harry
Potter but I mean Harry Potter can start
off as that really kid-friendly
sort of book series and movies and then
it got really really hard and finished
really my issues with Potter more I
never read the whole book series ever
yeah so I doubt I have any issues with
the book I have read them it's more at
the film's bother me sure I'm all done I
know some people who read the books and
they're like no the film's bothered me
too because in that same book but but in
terms of but I agree and and like the
whole like last couple movies are Empire
like darkness you know what I mean yeah
that's kind of an example of what you
know starting off with something very
light and finishing something very heavy
and with its kind of uneven with the
original trilogy where it goes it's
light but still had some serious moments
a new hope and I get really dark and
Empire and that major chokes a guy
the first minute in New Hope there's
arms flying up like it's there's
darkness and then the he used like it's
the old hidden fortress trick you used
Threepio and r2 is you know you see it
through their eyes so they're the comic
relief right but yeah it's it's fairly
dark and an empire took it to a whole
nother level and then added this sort of
wartime romance on top of it and they're
always constantly being chased and it's
it's a relentless movie every time I put
Empire around I'm like wow this movie
just doesn't quit like it every time you
think you're safe it's like something
else happens there's a lot going on yeah
yeah you've been like so like when I'm
talking thinking of Return of the Jedi I
mean when I was a kid that was my
favorite movie but mostly just because
of the Vader Luke stuff
I know a lot of people say that it's
like that stuff is so good I'm like I
agree yeah like I just want the rest of
the movie to be as good right and you
know the Emperor is so great in that
movie and just the Germans performing
like the second he showed up I remember
as a kid I got chills yeah I was
terrified this guy he doesn't do
anything no heed till the very end he's
absolute but like the whole time he's
just sitting there there's a looming
threat yeah and you compare that to what
he is in the prequels where he's they
show way too much of him doing a bunch
of potential keep an eye on you what's
not even that it's like the way he's so
over the top fighting Yoda and stuff I
really thought this guy should be
chucking mountains at each other like he
does some Senate seats but is this guy
neat yeah I know you're right people who
make that comparison but I do like that
that fight in episode 3 with him and
Yoda I mean it doesn't ultimately define
how he laughs - is kiss hilarious
because he'll he'll laugh II like goes
crazy my problem is I'll tell you my
problem with his performance in that
movie is it reminds me of second Seth
MacFarlane's joke performance in Robot
Chicken my favorite part in episode 3 is
when he's about to like be killed by or
being taken and whatever mace windu was
gonna do them you guys know he's like so
yeah
though over-the-top favor line I
realized I gonna have to have my other
favorite ice is buy back I know you had
very on the top even like an empire when
we see him for a second we know they've
reshot that and it's like the Monster
Mash makeup with a giant face that
doesn't look the same no it's the makeup
and the makeup with in Jedi I thought
was brilliant yeah it's very minimalist
but you could like I like when we see
the hood at the beginning you just kind
of see that he's very like
over-exaggerating moving his mouth and
he said he said he bases performance he
wanted it i think IAM endurance said
reptilian yeah it's almost like you
could see a snake tongue coming out of
it it is especially with the contact us
if contacts and stuff so that's it so i
yeah that's all perfect I just there was
all these like random things I start to
put together a list of like the problems
I've always had with the movie and then
there's other things other people
pointed out that didn't bother me as
much but I actually don't have a
visceral hatred of the Ewoks I know some
media right um I see I see the problems
and there's things that I would do to
fix it right
but yeah so and I think that was the
biggest thing there was an interesting
series of charts bar charts if you look
at the chart some of these somebody did
these charts that shows how the
characters intersect in all the Star
Wars movies and they they also do this
with other films like Back to the Future
and stuff and the the notes for Return
of the Jedi pointed out something I was
like this is a big thing that feels
unsatisfying about the movie and I was
never able to put it into words until I
saw this chart and that shows all the
timelines and stuff where the characters
intersect Hanalei on this and they said
through a movie about good triumphing
over evil the final climactic battle
between good and evil good and evil
don't intersect with the exception of
Luke everybody else is to the side
there's a space battle there's the
ground battle but where good and evil is
intersecting it's never with our
established main villains
it's basically your faceless
stormtroopers you've got the clothes as
we get as kind of moth Piatt but I don't
think Piet's ever even met
them personally it's always just
spaceship battles they're not mafia
Admiral Piett so it and I'm just like
yeah it feels really kind of
unsatisfying that these things and then
of course there's the infamous death of
Baba pad where it's just yeah about
where it was like a total cartoon at
that part where yeah built this guy up
so much and like and the Java scenes I
thought were always interesting cuz I I
loved them up at work I really do
because a lot of people are um yeah well
a lot of people like but if you cut the
job of stuff down we get less once I'm
like no you can actually have the same
amount of muffets there it's that you
just wasted so much time doing nothing
in that palace hmm like that whole plan
made zero sense right that was one of
your biggest contentions and so I feel
like if you cut these things down and
that's the other problem is the the
ending with bubble effect you've wasted
all that time to get Han back and then
you just sling bubble that off like you
know a cliff like that just as a goofy
accent I was like really like Han can
take this guy out Lando can take you
there's somebody like son yeah it's
accidentally taser but I'm like I I want
like a western-style like alright you
can stand up like like we were going you
know Empire especially with you know
both bed directly taking huh yeah after
he's frozen in carbonite
we'd never got that like like you're
saying no heat today you'd I think the I
think these are the reasons why Harrison
Ford just didn't want to do the movie I
mean he was you know here's important
he's like he's kind of funny personality
in some of these films because there's a
lot of movies especially when he's older
but it and this is maybe the first time
we saw or you can see like he's being
over-the-top in a way that just you
could tell he doesn't care that much oh
I don't think he gave a damn about just
tell he's performance is like yeah
proper right when he's somehow I think
that didn't help to remind I'm just like
what he's taken by the he wants in their
capture he's like tell
like all that kind of stuff but but
that's the kind of a fine line with him
because he can be like so charming in
that like hammy way and Indiana Jones
and stuff where he's being like very
over the top kind of like cartoony
almost yeah it fits with what's going on
and this it was just like he don't know
well I think you could you know I I
think he knew according to a lot of
people they saw this happening Lucas
retaking things over I think he saw the
writing on the wall there it's like
there's gonna be nothing for me in this
movie this is we're gonna go right back
to the first film you know and it's the
character is not gonna go anywhere and I
think he's just like kill me off right
just kill me off and that's the funny
thing cuz everybody goes like oh yeah
fixed returns Jedi kill Han Solo and I'm
like that makes zero sense you you think
about it would have been okay the
problem is the people who go well for
him it would have been fine right but
the people who say that I've gone into
this argument with some people and when
they say that they tend to be people who
saw the movie not on the big screen they
tend to be either my age or younger so
basically they saw this only on home
video I'm like oh yeah no that would
have been awesome I'm like well of
course it would have if you're watching
these three movies in a row imagine
going from 1980 with Empire Strikes Back
to 1983 and being like all right what's
gonna happen now oh we just brought this
guy back and killed him yeah like why
why would you do that
I mean I'm Saito is always 2020 on these
kind of things we're like this sometimes
things don't make sense in the moment
but then years later it's like okay like
I kind of get it from a different
perspective and I kept like he wanted
out and he's like yeah go go out in a
blaze of glory but I'm like it just made
from a story perspective of the time to
have done that would have been an empire
the second you have him hauled off
somewhere I'm like well now you you
can't kill him and you could see
Kasdan just trying in the script like
you look at that script and you can see
all these things he's doing where he's
trying to basically like okay we've got
to make it look like nobody's safe okay
I can't kill Han let's have it make it
look like Luke is gonna die so they do
this whole spiel where no you're the
only hope for the rebellion Leia it's
all on you and then there's never
it was just a MacGuffin right that's one
of the things I like most about your
rewrite there was that you you kind of
tied lay and way more heavily into the
story and weaved her in in a much more
important way so I think people should
appreciate that you know we're filming
this before the reaction a Star Wars fan
so I know I know and the title of the
video and Star Wars fans all these are
agreeable like they always get along
with each other so you know I expect
nothing but great waffles are you when I
went into this I'm like I'll probably
get crucified but whatever you know it's
important to remember that not to take
these things too too seriously
oh yeah well I mean this is just it's
called fan scripture I know we're family
shooting you know some stuff absolutely
but but yeah with Leia especially I
think you definitely gave her more to do
in this and in the original movie she'd
yes she doesn't really have she gets
shot in the arm you point out but like
that's about it and there's seals at
numbers et walks but but that's the
problem that was a huge like when I was
watching movie again I was watching with
my wife because she loves land of the
previous two films yeah and she kind of
agrees so yes too much way I'm like this
is just a huge wasted opportunity where
first off she kind of like I one thing I
really want to make clear is that she
should decide to follow wicked not just
like hey where are we going but like I
would have had her leave like just rail
even she looks behind and sees wicked
and then she's like you know where are
you from and like so she takes like the
initiative to be like now something's
telling me I got a I got to do this and
they tried it apparently they were there
a hints dropped I've seen
behind-the-scenes footage where Lucas is
giving direction that Luke's somehow
knows and Leia like that instinctually
to kind of go along with the Ewok Oh
horse thing yeah like because of that
there's a scene and it was a behind the
scenes footage and it was very clear and
I thought why wasn't this kind of like
more plate up in the movie but like when
Hans ready to shoot you know it looks
like no Han wait and like behind the
scenes footage you can see Mark Hamill
saying so like I had this intuition that
you know it's gonna be alright like the
forces telling me like you know go with
these and I was like turn more intense
yeah
I just and I'm just like well that's
kind of brilliant and that subtext I
think is in there in the movie but it's
never played up enough right that no
things come together the force works in
mysterious ways yeah yeah but um yeah
and I would have had I would have played
up Ewoks is like being ready to go to
war for a while yeah I really like that
which Noah they never explained in the
movie I'm just like we're these traps to
catch animals right were they planning
this from the beginning like the whole
cave thing that we had drawn up yeah
like they give them like a sense of
culture like cave paintings or something
and it shows their history how their
being just decimated by the Empire yeah
and I would have her like I I would play
if I would have made wicket and this is
something I didn't mention the video but
I was thinking I would make wicked like
the son of the chief basically so
wickets almost like the liaison like
yeah you can tell he's trying to
communicate you never know what the
Ewoks are really saying but like no we
can trust these people yeah as I read
the cheap eventually comes onboard and
then you know they open up this front
basically against the empire and I would
have way like show basically a map of
like Endor like all these Ewoks
someone's be like there's hundreds of
these settlements like the M and the
Empire is just so arrogant they just
don't give it's like caring about these
things like because they're not
expecting an attack and it makes just
more sense that like okay they could
take them out even though they're
technologically inferior which is why I
didn't want to do the Wookiees cuz
everybody goes on about oh that's what
should have been like - you can a wookie
planet but right there - is that like
the Wookiees like I could see that to a
point where I'm like I don't even think
it's a fair fight because I'm like
they're freaking wookies I'm like oh
they could I think they could do some
major damage I think I think Lucas's
point and I really enjoyed it it's like
a very Tolkien kind of sentiment of like
no nature the humblest of creatures yeah
but you have and you have to make them a
little more threatened right I like how
you tied that into some of the ideas
that were in the sequel trilogy like
with Starkiller base and making and orc
the new version of Starkiller base or
not new but you know back then they
would have made it I just kept thinking
because I looked at Starkiller base in
force awakens I'm like I get what people
are saying we got yet another more and
I'm like man I'll tell you though if
they had done this in 1983 as a kid I
would have a tear
I'm the next logical step that would
have been weird without feeling too real
and all I'll say this about force
awakens no matter what people think
about that movie the greatest thing it
ever did was visually explain something
to me that I never understood which is
like here's just our one ball
here's Jeff Star - and it's like 8 times
bigger I never noticed that
until yeah and I sat there and I'm like
what how the hell would we have ever
known that like they say well it's
bigger than the last one just in the
text so I'm like but there's no content
and not only that you put it next to a
giant moon so it just looks small to me
like yeah no I agree but I think there
was a real stroke of a genius on your
part there to make Starkiller base and
door and just sign that all together but
I do like the half and half like half of
it is not been paid Oh paved over yet so
like the Ewoks have been oppressed for a
really long - yeah yeah I think I would
have it like they would start like this
was the big project they've been working
on in secret since the beginning right
the Death Star was like they're it's a
good plan Vanguard yeah to tie things in
speaking of the sequel trilogy ideas
that you brought in I mean the title of
the video like you said is the what if
Luke Skywalker died in Return of the
Jedi and you kind of took that forced
death that happened in last Jedi and
brought which I actually really liked it
lasted I didn't have a problem with
anything I wasn't a huge fan well that's
fine but why I didn't I that's another
things from like me and what if this
happened earlier in the series it would
it would have made work it definitely
would have made more sense and been a
yeah I will say this I do agree I think
his death in this trilogy should have
come at the end I mean yeah I kind of
wish it was Savior yeah I really would
want one to see a big showdown with ray
and Luke versus kylo and maybe someone
know whatever is going on might say I
don't know what they're doing with the
last movie but it's some kind of big
showdown because he says I'll see you
around kid and does that wink I'm like
yes I want to see the next thing I'm
excited and then he just frickin
disappeared
look now we've got Leah - oh come on
that's mean she's still in the movie
though there's like you know that that's
what that one is
and somebody wanted to see
with a bigger old Jedi that was like the
biggest tragedy I'm Carrie Fisher died
I'm like no no no it's over that we can
never see it's upsetting because I mean
we got that one scene really short scene
with Luke and Leia and we're last Jedi
which I loved which it was great I mean
that was really well done but we never
got to see Han and Luke interact and now
they're both dead
rubia and now carrie fisher's passed
away so it's like social if that make it
out of that yeah what are we doing now I
don't know you don't I don't know if
she's actually gonna die in episode 9
because from what I've heard they're
gonna use stuff from force awakens and
she might just like pop in and out in
some like cut away scenes or something
so at the very end people might be
celebrating if there's a victory at the
end of this next movie and she's gonna
be smiling from a window it's like the
matrix I get a different actress and
she's like I'm not sure right I don't
know yeah well in terms of return the
Jenny and you rewrite bringing Luke's
death in there it definitely felt more
complete I would say then what we've
seen so far in the sequel trilogy so
like what why did you want to implement
that into Return of the Jedi that's the
biggest thing we're talking about
there's two there's two big reasons one
one and it's one of those common
complaints about Jedi we can talk about
the Muppets and the waste and things
don't make sense but the biggest
critical complaint a lot of fans
sometimes won't say is but biggest
critical point is like yes there's no
there's no sense of sacrifice everything
works out perfectly at the end like
nobody-nobody wound up into anything
yeah and the Ewoks dance ended nobody of
any consequence dies even the side
characters and people like said well the
leader like the one you are Todd yeah
yeah what do you want very sad scene
here's like job Williams music goes all
Schindler's List for a second it's
like all this goofy battle music and
then what do you want was very important
and can he died if you knew where he
died I've been treated the ewoks like
more seriously they like to talk about
that really a little bit more but
instead like it's as a kid more
aggressive adult am like I can yeah
right so there's no sense of sacrifice
and I think it's a huge problem in the
movie and people like to point out whoa
whoa Vader he was a genocide Oh maniac
to begin with yeah okay it sucks for
Luke that Vader had to but it's it's not
really a big sacrifice he was literally
the villain you knew from a story
perspective that this was gonna happen
yeah I mean how it would happen we
didn't know but it's not this is a real
sacrifice right at the same time though
I think it's one of the best redemption
arcs or absolutely in movies so like oh
oh no I totally hear what he died I'm
not saying that but in the sense of like
character sacrificing himself and like
basically I mean we're talking about the
final battle of a warm yeah and
essentially no nobody really dies except
for the villains none of the big yeah
protagonist yeah so I think that was a
big one and Lucas I think for me like it
sets up lay as story arc and completes
it if you need to like it so if you need
the third film completed or the the that
trilogy completed and be like we're
never going to make a sequel trilogy
we're done yeah yeah yeah so just the
last Star Wars movie yeah I just wanted
to never return to Star Wars again he's
got a completed trilogy and he's got a
setup where Leia was said she's the only
hope for the rebellion she's she's a
next big thing Luke tells her that goes
to face Vader he dies and now she is the
one to move on she's got han who's now
capable military commander she will
probably rise in the ranks of you
the Alliance and now she has the
potential to be a new Jedi so she is the
new Hulk basically the last of which is
what Luke says right and that's what
bothers me about the movie they make
that a centerpiece of the movie and
you're just like oh this is gonna go
somewhere and it never does it doesn't
get ready and but so if you want to end
it there you can if you want a sequel
trilogy you now have Leia as a potential
Jedi and you have Luke as a force ghost
you can do anything
sure and we've already established what
do you want to do it or not that there
are clones in this universe you could
clone an evil Luke if you wanted versus
where your good idea I gotta say yeah I
love having like the force ghosts Luke
teaching Leia to defeat a clone of
himself oh yeah that's a great or like
imagine how messed up this would be for
Leia if it's like who do I trust because
there's this human being that looks so
much like that it feels like my brother
and yeah you'd go very Frank Herbert I
was like us dude did that what their
goal is Duncan but it so there's so many
routes you could go with it so it sets
up another trilogy if you need it it
completes the trilogy if you don't with
the idea that you know things go on and
it feels more like a mythological ending
where the hero goes out sacrificing
himself so that his friends can live on
and the dream can live on and sure
tyranny falls and it's it's not a fairy
tale ending
no and that's what Jedi is it's a fairy
tale ending on something that had become
way more of a myth almost with these
kind of Zen Buddhist flavors like with
Yoda and stuff not a mix of that yeah
and it doesn't and that's why Jedi
always I think feels off to some people
like me where it just it feels like too
much of a sitcom II fairy tale happy
ending on something I was like wow this
is going a darker direction and but I
was thinking about cuz I was like okay I
know Lucas is always scared of like
think of the children
oh god you kill off Lucas it's just too
much no cry I thought about it long and
hard I'm just like okay put put yourself
back like you're you're seven years old
Robin you're watching this on home video
with this would freak you out too much
and I'm like no because I'm like you
lost
obi-wan in Episode four and if something
was gonna freak
out I mean that guy was the space wizard
mentor like he was the like you look at
that movie and I'm like he's the one
that you really identified with as a kid
it's like well he's the authority figure
like usually what he's gonna bring these
over there and then he's just taken out
turned into nothing but the second you
hear that voice it's like oh yeah
everything's all right then you see him
an empire oh yeah everything's all right
you see his force goes over energetic oh
yeah everything's all right
you kill Luke as a kid I'm like yeah I
would be sad but the second I see his
force ghost at the end I would be like
oh yeah it's alright and I I do think
there was something really kind of
clever about what Lucas did with that
because it does soften the blow for
something that's meant for both kids and
adults and I think like yeah I would
have been like you know and he's a force
ghost now and he had to do what he had
to do the same as friends and you know
he little word yeah it I would not like
have felt destroyed as a child I've been
like it's too dark and that's the other
thing
adults like Lucas and and even critics
and other people they're always really
it's like it's like I grew up on nothing
but dark crack babies upbringing I I
loved it and like it gives you an
appreciation for that yeah life sucks
but you know it's about how you face it
totally no I agree with you if I was
younger and I saw that like if I saw
Luke die at the end of Return I would be
sad for sure but I mean right it would
feel like it was worth it in the end
because he saved everyone and I like how
you had him inject the core and size
matters not and bringing you all his
words into it was really smart I kept
trying to like tie everything back
together and I think it was the same
with Han and Leia where I'm just like
their relationship just stops yeah it's
someone who loves you like I liked that
play on the line in Jedi but after that
it's just like their their relationship
grinds to a halt it's just it's almost
like they're just two totally different
people
well they do know like kinds a little
jealous of Luke like yeah how do you can
tell is it yeah yeah yeah that's really
about it but again that seam goes
nowhere
right what and then told me at the end
when you you love him don't you
yeah I'm totally fine with this I'm
hearing the way when you kid
I'll go with my my ex-wife that
apparently is in canna now from the
comics yeah he has a ghetto wife so oh
really
yeah I look into that he's been married
too much so much style always man I know
yeah I just I don't know hon and the
Hans character all together I'm just
like man this guy was literally just I
I'm sure he thought he was dead
he's like this is it you know he wakes
up and then that that's what always
drove me nuts my father he and Lando
patched things up I really really liked
your angle on that because no he
wouldn't have just like automatically
forgiven her not only them but these
guys now in general he got a freakin
promote that it was like that's great
you just made Judas a general like I I
think he would I think he would be
pissed and I think that's something like
you have to have them slowly regain that
trust and we're like it's Hans turn to
save Lando and at that point it's like
okay everything's settled but I think
Leia to like land Han - I honestly think
Hans position would be listen I got a
get-out-of-jail-free card like I that I
have no debt
Java's gone the Empire thinks I'm dead
and now you're telling me there's a
giant super weapon that's probably in
destructive or something coming he's
like I think he would have made the
offer to land me like no let's go yeah
and I don't think and I don't think it's
I don't think it's selfish in the sense
that like cuz he does that in episode 4
but right
I think he's legitimately really
concerned for land he's like you're just
gonna get yourself killed and he's like
I think this is a guy who's always used
to winning and getting away on luck and
he just had the most unluckiest
experience of his life and I would have
Ford play it just as like almost this
kind of doomed character it just feels
like a my Luck's run out and maybe he
stays just because he things like well
maybe I should go out in a blaze of
glory than help my friends right I don't
know how you tied in so we got Lando and
and the tension with Han but also bring
Boba Fett into it and like having that
yes like having that all tie in together
was great so well we know it was all
those things where I'm just like I
thought for a seconds like what fans
just be pissed off because like why
would just Boba Fett be like the
Emperor's lack of it I'm like wait a
second the Emperor's lack no but I mean
kind of kind of working with it it
suddenly hit me I'm like
our strikes back he was he was working
for the Emperor there yeah well there's
this mythology above a bet that's
growing up about how he's the the
greatest thing ever if it's cloned son
yeah obviously but the more I thought
about it I was just like wait he his dad
was killed by the Jedi he was working
for the Empire and Empire Strikes Back
I'm like he told me be on board with
this and then the second that Luke got
away I wanted that see more like wings a
saber or something like takes up bubbles
got in that side of it I think at that
point like perfet he just like looks at
the Falcon taking off like oh it's on
like I'm gonna get these bastards yeah I
think he would totally be on board and
then he's that extra kind of chaos
element right it's almost like the
captain phasma role in the sequel
trilogy
we're like there's a really cool
character that people want more of and
that we didn't really get more but I
think that he I mean Gwendoline Christie
playing Captain phasma in the last Jedi
at least had a really cool battle with
Ben when that whole yeah when that whole
place was getting taken down at least we
had that and it was in the Senate there
was just no good yeah it just goes out
like we didn't ever get this yeah bike
too much and it just it never and it
just was it was kind of like salt in the
wound just because the Java storyline
didn't connect anything yeah which is
why I tried to put that in a separate
yeah yeah how basically the the rumors
about like a second they're not deaths
or a star killer base or being spread
amongst yeah so you tie it in so we more
that through life is move forward
because I thought maybe I was
hyperbolized in because I said in the
video I'm like it's a 40-minute detour
with no real payoff because all you need
to do is get honden that's the only
thing and I was like how was it really
40 minutes I like looked it up but I'm
like I was close I think when you I
think when you get to the Emperor
arriving at the Death Star which is
after all the job of stuff I think it's
37 minutes yeah that's pretty close it's
pretty close I think there's yeah
there's two minutes yeah there's a
couple minutes in the beginning there
yeah but yeah we're you're talking it's
got to be over a half
yeah and it's a big act it's basically
the whole first act to them yeah it
doesn't it just doesn't connect Staley
they here do any big enough wait we do
get I do like certain scenes from that I
do like Luke coming is this Reed
energized version of Luke that we
haven't seen before and I'm like that's
the bed that's the one thing it does I
will I you know I give a credit to that
that we established Luke now is back and
he's a badass yeah you could have got to
that so much faster sure I get that the
lamp thing always it still feels weird
like most Slave Leia even even back when
I first watched it I was like I was like
I did not want to wade into that
discussion so I'm like I'm not changing
that but I've always been on the side of
just like well we were talking with Jim
Jerez I'm like Jim J rice is a guy's guy
he's like he's like wisss freaking slug
need with like a human woman this makes
sense well the the alien slave girl he
had before male horses he's like
lemis attracted those couple of lizard
tails on her humiliation thing maybe an
end brings it close it's like no I was
looking up behind-the-scenes pictures
for the edit and there's a picture of
Carrie Fisher open and she has like a
towel she's are opening up the talent
she has the Slave Leia outfit on she's
looking at George Lucas like this like
huh and Lucas is looking at the camera
he has his hand on her back and he's
just like I'm Joey now and I think Lucas
face we wanted to give every teenage boy
puberty all at once yes it's just so
weird because it Leigh is such a strong
character in the first two movies and
like you you don't even think of her as
like a sexual object or anything like
that and those first two comes all these
articles about how like yeah well it's
like the transformation how like it
starts off as a kid to him and it gets
darker and now it's like people's first
sexual experiences I'm like strange
it's just as soon as it's over like I'd
forget about if gerbil was human it
would make sense while he was human well
we met yeah we know that the new hope
scene is so weird I know they didn't me
boy did you shoot sparkly though weird
but I mean now that it's in there with
you know the CG of what we know Jenna
looks like even though he's like the
scale down a lot and then when Han steps
on his his tail it looks like somebody
did like cuz we can do this in like
Adobe Premiere just like dragged and
clicked as an animation like yeah it
doesn't that seem doesn't add anything
even though Boba Fett is in that scene
mm-hmm at the very end so we get to see
him I think they would have been the
first time right because he doesn't show
up in the main series till Empire ya
know but that won't showed up in like a
little animated short alright by the way
I know the reason I want wookies an end
or like the Christmas special proved to
me that I'm like Chewbacca is awesome I
love Chewbacca
I love wookies as a concept if you put
like 40 of them and all you hear and
throughout the whole movie
yeah yeah I could have been grating on
there like the kid the cache chic scene
in Revenge of the Sith I was okay with
because it wasn't the whole movie oh I
love how they tie in Chewbacca and just
shoehorn it oh no I mean geez I have an
innate look at the camera and smile ya
know Honda show up in there this is this
is ten year old Han and this is baby
Luke and Leia I think red alerted me to
point out how great in there reviewing I
know it I I don't think it's a great
scene but I mean the idea of that many
bookies on a planet and following them I
was okay on Kashyyyk because it wasn't
the whole movie that was like a ten
minutes yeah but I'm like but
considering how much the Ewoks are in
Jedi I'm like I don't know if I could
have done wiki's that whole time like
it's funny because it seems like Return
of the Jedi has all this like mythology
behind it in terms of what would have
happened like I always hear about all
these behind the scenes oh we've been
like this actually Lawrence Kasdan
George Lucas he went through this
divorce so he was really like down at
this point
and he gave this alternate ending that
would have made things incredibly dark
like like Lou I think that's a show Luke
turns to the dark side and then he turns
back to the light at the end of the
movie and then he like goes off like on
his own and it's like a hermit but kind
of like obi-wan was an exile
later costs like Mon Mothma and Han dies
and like if there's always behind the
scenes thing the story I heard about the
idea was Vader dies the emperor is now
gone and like Luke like picks up Vader's
helmet all sad like I'm like puts on the
helmet I'm the Emperor now I own the
sound of what they did with kylo Ren
know in the last Jedi they kind of did
that when he killed what's his name yeah
I forgot already that's fine but he was
like an evil character I honestly like
to know I honestly think like from the
the transcripts I've read like from
people talking about this one when
Kasdan and we because we're talking
about I honestly think they were joking
with each other I don't I don't believe
they were serious I think they were
brain Severns like hey how about this
yeah III don't think that was ever a
serious consideration I know Khan dying
and other there's other things he hasn't
wanted to do make it dark yeah there are
other stories behind the scenes about
what would have happened and there's I
always hear about that like there's
always alternate things that could have
happened they're very close to happening
when you can see this this pull and tug
and push between gears and Lucas like
you can see Kasdan trying to be like
Tarkin the steering thing up there
looking like an empire I haven't fought
an empire right a lot of tone shifts
even from scene to scene where it's like
super goofy on Endor and then we get the
great stuff with on the Death Star with
the Emperor and Luke and Vader so yeah
my favorite impression is Jim jr. I was
always talking outside and I loved
haunts always like my favorite character
in the movies of like I love him an
empire new hope it didn't Jedi like all
I remember is him just going I like you
your voice over huh just look I won't
think of all the think of all the memes
out there of weird Harrison Ford smiles
they're always from Jedi are like I like
the line like it's me
oh yeah and I love just like Mark Hamill
and Carrie Fisher looking at each other
like and they're just like shucks what I
don't know Lucas edits it together I
guess it's him all you know what one of
the things that pressure me to
rewatching this you know I went through
a lot of return magenta to because I did
this so I brought in a lot of clips and
stuff and I would ply myself being
caught it up and watching some stuff the
thing that they added from I think 2011
they're the no no lifting up and thrown
I hate that man there I hate I hate that
there's one thing I hate even more that
they change ladder Jedi and it's one of
the few things where I'm just like no is
a great scene at Jabba's palace was in
the house it was the Sarlacc pit it's
when Han is kind of just saving Lando
there and he's like the the Sarlacc pit
tentacle grabs him and yeah begged that
great scream for Billy Dee was like no
way man I thought you were playing and
that they changed the line - yeah the
line now is don't wait I could no wait
it's fine I can see a lot better now the
original line from when I saw the film
and I want to say was in the 97 special
edition in theaters but but at least
five more soon from from the one I had
on VHS the original line cuz I thought
it was the best line because it was so
full of irony was just trust me and it's
like after everything that happened
between those remember that that was the
original line Han Solo said I just
remembered yeah he's like no way man I
thought you were blind trust me I'm just
like I as a kid I thought that line was
hilarious because there's like yeah like
[Music]
that's an awful tape - I'm like what do
you think speaking of that do you think
we're ever gonna get the original cut of
the original trilogy
as a blu-ray release or anything from
Disney there was hope once they took it
over that that would happen but it seems
like that's not gonna happen though I
mean if Disney in a frame they would do
it but
I mean they would mean I'm not I'm not
gonna get into the you know there's a
thousand and one videos that I talking
about that I think but I do think you
get that release of the original cuts
you know the unaltered special editions
right I think there's that that's out
there the mouse the mouse works
initialized the mouse works in
mysterious ways and I can't ever predict
what they're gonna do like that company
is just so bizarre sometimes accurate
yeah I think they should I think they're
fools not to ever do it well Lucas was
the only thing holding it back before
because he'd refused to have it happen
and now that someone else owns it you
think that they would probably make more
money I would I would love both copies
of the film and that's the thing I I
have a lot of issues with the special
edition there are some things in the
special edition I think of great I like
Empire apart from inserting Ian
McDermott which didn't work that well
for me just because this is Episode III
yeah
outside of that I thought all of the
best changes were there they've cleaned
up a lot of the special effects and then
the idea of opening up Cloud City
because because the budget I know that's
one people things people say a lot yeah
that that to me was the best kind of
like here's how to do the special
editions right like Empire came out for
the most part pretty damn good there's a
couple of stupid seasons there like we
need to see Vader getting on that shovel
we have no idea how he got back to the
executor and I'm like just assumed he
wrote the shuttle why are you showing me
showing him take off like we're not
idiots right I guess a kid I assumed he
just took a shuttle back I'm like they
all have spaceships obviously the Han
shot first thing is a big point of
contention yeah my my biggest complaints
are in Episode four yeah honestly Jedi
for the most part this is Ocean Edition
that's changing that other changing that
other line - yeah I would like other
than most the Jedi comes up I honestly
thought I have a soft spot for job
number you knew it knows exactly what it
is it's like well it's going to be goofy
anyway but
I don't mind John Williams and Redux
music I love seeing the celebrations
across the galaxy I'm like no that's
cool that's that I'm like that was very
miss I don't need to see Jar Jar
screaming recently but every like that
whole scene I'm like yes and when they
did that the first time in 97 cuz we
didn't have Naboo yet that was in there
and I just remembered just like that
scene was amazing I'm like honestly was
worth it just to see chorus amp because
yeah that was something I read in 2
Timothy Zahn books yeah about this
Capitol City and then I'm just like
that's that's but that upsets me too
because when we talk about the sequel
trilogy we didn't get the freaking C
Corazon like what you know it just blew
it up in like two seconds and we didn't
get to see the newer book that's one
thing that that frustrates me about the
new trilogy for the most part well
buildings are very good right for the
most really is not I agree our main
complaint I do like the first two movies
so far I mean there's there's some big
issues that I have with it for the most
part I like force awakens in last Jedi
but we have one of the biggest things is
we don't like what the hell is going on
like the first there's no contest who's
in charge like it is is a New Republic
what the rebellion is now the resistance
like hundred percent and they resisted
the bands who defended the apologists
are just like well it's always unplaned
in the book and I'm like you know it's
okay to be a free computer you gotta
spend some time I'm telling me where
we're at before we get into the conflict
Lucas knew who to surround himself with
yes his amazing team of editors
including his wife yes he actually did
that really well in a new hope you have
all the context you need now he was
halfway to destroying it with a bunch of
unnecessary scenes like there's a great
video on YouTube that explains what the
original cut was looking like but he he
knew how to surround himself with the
right people in the final and prodded
that scene at the roundtable and the
Death Star was something that I so
wanted in like the sequel trilogy just a
scene where it's just like here's what's
going on here's who these people are
when when they're just like you know the
Senate that has been dissolved the
regional governors will run everything
will have the Death Star plans back in
this battle stations it told you
everything I'm like okay we now know
what this University
the the expository stuff in that regard
I mean it's tough to blend it in
naturally because onion feels like all
the time now we got this Amana steel we
got this in Gardens the galaxy of lime -
it's like they go on this tour of this
visual thing about what happened and
like stuff comes up about like the
history and that feels very contrived if
there's another way to do it more
naturally where we have where we have
someone explaining what's going on
without it feeling like you know all
like looking at directly of the audience
and saying like this is what's happening
now this is where we're at then they
should have done it that way I mean even
even if they couldn't it would have set
a better base for us to go from and I
wouldn't have been as confused about
what's happening here if some about my
flashbacks is the flashback I honestly
wanted more that like that's where the
interesting stuff the only thing about
last Jedi is as I was doing this one for
Return of the Jedi I'm like these movies
are very similar in their problems like
I honestly think they're right yeah I
think we take the Ewoks doesn't really
carry over unless you want consider the
porks in the Ewok replacement both kind
of kind of kind of maybe but I mean they
they play no real purpose in the plot
down the Empire but when you look at it
like the main promise I'm I really love
last Jedi but last Jedi to me is like
returning the Jedi where the things that
carried it for me was all around one
group of people and it was kylo Ren it
was Rey and it was Luke Leia to a small
extent near the end yeah but that
carries the rest of the movie for me
through what is a bunch of side
characters not really connecting well
nothing it's it's really just kind of
messy and I'm like this is like Return
of the Jedi where it's like this one
thing at least from my opinion was
really solid carries the rest move with
all the side characters suffer for like
they don't know what to do with these
characters it's just it's kind of goofy
and all over the place they seem kind of
inconsistent from where they were in the
first movie yeah
so yeah III think they're actually very
similar which is one of the reasons I
though I know the hatred for last Jedi
is so disliked I'm not on board with
that there's so many things I like about
it but yeah it's and that's how I feel
about return the Jedi where it's like
some people don't like it I'm just like
no I still love this
but yeah no problems I never even wanted
considered changing return the Jedi
because it's like I just never would
have thought because I grew up with that
and stop you know it and it wasn't as
big of a glaring problem for me like
rocky 4 was with like you know following
this was just I kind of always just
accepted Star Wars as it was you know
the original movies I didn't really
start thinking critically about those
troubles too until episode 2 came out
and I hated that movie when they came
out
oh my least favorite of all when Attack
of the Clones came out he was like
within weeks of the first spider-man
movie and I loved the first spider-man
movie when I first saw it it was like
one of my first big theatrical
experience where I was just so invested
and everything and just wowed by
everything i saw and i loved spiderman
and then Star Wars came out either a
couple weeks after that or I saw it a
couple weeks after I could I think they
both came out in May of that year and I
was just like what the hell is going on
what is this like the stuff with Anakin
and Padme unless why this is Chris
Christopher Lee riding on that speeder
bike is the greatest thing I've ever
seen by day I heard uh get ice sitting
there and he just zoomed past on that
thing and I just remember shouting like
we're having a blast but we're making
funny movie before I like it yeah you
know yo you'll pop up a conspiracy to
bring down the 7 crystal easier and I
was like no no that's not the stake we
make readings of power yeah I mean there
is like a couple good things I mean I
did top 5 best and worst moments from
the prequel trilogy and one of the best
moments from episode 2 if not the best
moment is when obi-wan is talking to
Count Dooku and they have this back and
forth but again it goes nowhere but
that's it doesn't go anywhere but it
again is about things that happen before
that we never saw it just talking about
the interesting things instead of
showing us the interesting things but
but it had young Boba Fett everybody
before I lose it here we spend I think
all the prequels sequel trilogy and the
original trilogy now so I think we we've
talked
this was there any last thoughts you
want to say about return the Jedi in
your rewrites um I just no I mean I hope
people aren't too offended no I just I
really enjoyed yeah Kate I I really I so
enjoy the hell out of that movie I do
too it's still one of my favorite just
because of the looters yeah and I I
think that was my biggest goal was just
to not look for easy answers and every
like going on yeah wookies are all easy
answers and I I think Lucas's bass idea
was actually really solid and really
like I'm like I love this idea of nature
versus Tecna I'm like it's all there
it's just in the execution right and and
I think you could tell Lucas's heart was
with Luke's story and that's cool like I
there's not much that's a Luke
sacrifices himself I would change I um I
got brought up in I was like far from
bobba fett staffing out I'm like that
just goes as is because the the Mon
Mothma thing and I gave as an
alternative to that would be another way
to do if you really don't want to kill
Luca off then you have to kill yeah kill
them off like I'm off to the play you
have to kill Mon Mothma so that Leia
then becomes the new head of the revell
sure which pays off Luke's whole speech
about you're the only hope for the
rebellion so that there's just something
there cuz it's just such a glaring
MacGuffin and yeah it drives me a little
more nuts every time I see that
conversation I'm like and you did
nothing right you know Mon Mothma
you know growing up watching his movies
movies like I just thought she was like
the weird lady I didn't know who she was
or what was going on I always loved her
like as a kid I loved to return the
jeddak because she's we her delivery his
sole her deliveries odd cryptic and
British yeah but her how she looks
vampa has made a critic no shy - yeah
has come she kind of her voice in my
cadence almost reminds me of princess
mombi from Return of the paternal trend
Oz yeah it reminds me I'll tell you what
I like about my mother and it was
something that I figured out even as a
kid like instinctually I just knew
exactly what they were doing
she's the exact opposite of the Emperor
she knows no no
I understand yeah it's male its male
female black white and then they both
have this similar sort of like stilted
kind of presence like their they both
feel otherworldly like you're right
she's like a ghost and they're both like
go but I mean Emperor is so entertaining
to watch even though I think it's more
no I what he just likes to you know he's
like massages are just so fun to watch
no but I I think that's what they were
going for it's that she is the sort of
counterpoint so that the head of the
Empire is is black robe older guy like
we're delivered they're both very
ghost-like creatures but she's more like
all this could come she's almost like
angelic yeah that kind of weird
androgynous angel sort of way Oh blows
now anyway yeah and I actually like that
as a kid I thought she was a super cool
character cuz she's so odd
ya know I'm just like who is the second
the second she walked out I'm just like
that's got to be the most important
person what if they had any balls they
would have made Admiral Ackbar the
leader of the rebellion and that would
have been much more entertaining and
everything would have been a trap but
one thing if you kill Mon Mothma that I
think would be really fun because I know
she's got like a pretty big fan base a
lot of people like her ya know people
all the Cardinal universe the Cartoon
Network the Cartoon Network shows and
other things better on and the the
Disney shows yeah she plays a role she
does
well I here's just what I'm saying if
you kill her off in return Jedi how much
more impactful do you think these
cartoons would be if you know she ends
her life sacrificing is over doing
something at the Battle of Endor and
you're watching this knowing how it's
going to end I think that should be
really cool maybe you kill her and Luke
wow this is just a killing spree the
only thing that the only thing that
bothered me is like as I was saying like
kill my mom I'm just like Akbar is on
that ship to know I also have a solid
plan for either do it because I was like
it wasn't my first choice it was
tiny bit upset about how they did
Admiral Ackbar in last Jedi - he just
died you'd sucked out into space and
stuff it's like I liked you like that so
I would kilowatt again these are all the
problems I have yeah no it's a whole
other conversation I'm sure you guys are
talking about it and arguing with each
other in the comments right now he said
please be respectful guys this is not to
each other I'm talking about this is not
like and I'll be all what is the space
fantasy with let's bring out the worst
and everybody
I feel like I'm like that I'm playing
video games so I get it
but I mean just keep it in perspective
folks this is not in the grand scheme of
thing it's not that big of a deal it's
just one the talks doesn't abase just
one yeah so I will say this I ain't
touching the prequels with a 10-foot
ball no when it comes to this project
cuz I'm just like I would literally be
like you know I would have to nuke the
whole thing there's a great series out
there I can't remember the name of the
the channel but this guy does what if
episode 123 were good and he completely
redid episodes 1 through 3 with his own
story and stuff and it's really well
done so if you want to see something
that's you know a really good different
take on it you should check those out
just look up that title what if the Star
Wars Episode one was good or something
like that and it'll come up so yeah
that's gonna be over every day sequel
trilogy I mean that'll be if we do this
can be way down the road we go out might
be fun to come up with like what would
our sequel trilogy look like based on
what we were doing here ya know that cuz
you know that's what I'm gonna do with
the rocky wanna definitely to make Rocky
5 you know as a sequel to my rocky for
transcription so you'll see that
probably next month so stay tuned for
that but we have a whole bunch of other
ones on oh yeah the lineup here so I
think you guys will be interested
hopefully in probably shorter because I
don't have to fix the whole right like
you said this is your big passion
project that was a problem I'm like man
if I look at the things I have to fix
their the common complaints it's 2/3 of
the movie because the 1/3 is Luke Vader
and the Emperor
that's all perfect but my game is gonna
be a long one yeah totally
understandable so we'll be back here
very soon
we'll have a podcast going along with
next month's video and so forth going on
from what is excellence video because
it's yours it's probably gonna be the
rocky 5 video like I said so like it'll
be you know basing off the stuff that I
did with the rocky for transcription and
continuing that on probably bringing
Adonis Creed into the situation and
seeing how he interacts with his
illegitimate or his father his son how
Apollo was gonna interact with him and
how that affects you know rocky
situation and we'll get into all I don't
wanna give it away but I have it all
written out I was waiting to see glass
the other day at this theatre and I was
just writing everything down so I had
that all ready to go they'll probably
gonna fix glass to was supposed to be a
twist that's a whole other start it's
not gonna do is serenity could use some
work too yeah I for a little bit about
serenity this this this new movie no no
no we don't need will you have a catch
fire fly yeah we bring those people
ended up with God will bring porterie
back for that yeah so yeah we'll be back
here next month with a new video thank
you guys very much for watching and or
listening to this make sure you go ahead
and check out our pass transcription
video we have the Rakhi for one up what
if Apollo Creed didn't die on rocky poor
and oh that's right what if he didn't
die and what if Luke did die but yes we
have that one Skywalker was very rocky
and Apollo Creed was Lando and returned
the Jedi and he didn't anyway we'll be
back very soon with a new video in a new
podcast in February so keep an eye out
and in ear after that and we'll talk to
you guys later
Hrothgar for joining us right alright
see you guys may the force be with you I
guess may the Schwartz be with you
[Music]
you